----------- This document is translated by Tilman Binder ------------

In this directory are the kanji-skeletons designed by the
Wadalab-kanji--commmittee, which can be supplemented to
gain PostScript Type 1 outline-fonts.

The file-names have the following meaning:

skeleton-font-name:  wadalab-mincho
JIS first, second type:  -0
supplement parameter:   -8
version number:   .4

JIS first-second-type, specifically byo-kamei, hen-kamei writing
types are stored in the following files:

wadalab-mincho-0-8.?.tar.Z: sai-mincho type  filigree mincho type
wadalab-mincho-0-12.?.tar.Z: chu-mincho type  medium mincho type
wadalab-gothic-0-13.?.tar.Z: cho-kaku type  squared gothic type
wadalab-maru-0-8.?.tar.Z: saimaru type  filigree round type

Each of the files can be, if processed, turned into PostScript.
All files can be displayed.

The code of the incomplete rows of "JISX208" and alphanumeric letters
can be found in wadalab-sym.?.tar.Z. 

For the JIS third type kanjis (JISX0212) are momentarily only
two writing-types available, namely:

wadalab-mincho-1-8.tar.Z:  sai-mincho type         filigree mincho type
wadalab-maru-1-8.tar.Z:  saimaru type            filigree round type

Concerning the tools to use the fonts, the following are prepared:

1. Conversion programm for Metafont

This can be performed with: tools/wftomf.c
(wftomf.c was formerly called type1tomf.c)
Hint information were also considered, during the developpment
of the Metafont sources.

2. Conversion programm for Type 1 pfa fonts

This can be performed with: tools/wftopfa.c
If one produces the Familiy Hints of the PFA Files one
receives only coarse results, as they are
only a combination of various patterns.

1997/10/8 debugged by Dr H. T. Leung

3. Conversion programm to convert Type 1 pfa fonts to pk fonts
used with NTT-Nihongo-TeX

This can be performed with: tools/wftodm.c
With:
wftodm -FontBase dg jis*.ps goth-*.ps
one receives dgjk[a-k].pfa files. If the
conversion is done with the ps2pk programm, one
receives pk-files of various sizes. The actual version
has the flaw, that the result does not match the
FontMatrix, so the japanese characters are shifted upwards.

1997/10/8 debugged by Dr H. T. Leung

4. Conversion programm for BDF Fonts, programm by kuribayash@omron

This can be performed with: tools/bdfmerge.c
In the commentary of the programm, which was programmed
by arai@astem,  the method of how to merge is explained.
16 and 24 BDF Dot Fonts, produced from
wadalab-mincho-1-8.tar.Z are located in
the directory ftp/Font/bdf.

5. Conversion programm for writing-style-club-fonts

This can be performed with: tools/wftovf.c
With:
wftovf -base min 12 -thresh 15.0 jis*.ps min*.ps
one receives files called min12.vf1, min12.vf2.
If the value for -thresh is enlarged, the quality
deteriorates, because an segment is derived from
the third Bezier Curves, but the size of the
resulting file shrinks.
If MS-DOS and DOS-extender is used you have to
define MSDOS previous to compiling.

6. Use these fonts as Composite Postscript fonts

  o Make PFA files for each subfonts( as written in 3 ), and put them to
    the font directory( e.g. /usr/local/lib/ghostscript/4.0/fonts ).

  o Change Font names in `tools/Wadalab-mincho-0-12.ps'

  o Put the file to the font directory, or include the file in Postscript 
    files.

7. Use with Ghostscript(obsolete)

There is a method to convert to 5 types of
the writing-style-club-font, but the use
of PFA Fonts are recomended, that quality
does not get too bad. The method is descibed in
the file tools/USAGE.ghostscript. Respectivly
the translation into English by Mr. Suzuki Shinji of Tokyo
University in the file tools/USAGE.ghostscript.eng.
Font and patches can be found in ftp/Font/patches,
In case lines in the source code of the patches should get
too long the definitions in the source-code of
the patches of the file common.h should be
#define MAXLINELEN 4096
#define BUFFERSIZE 4096
as it was pointed out by Mr.
Aida Shigenobu from Yamagata University.

If you as an individual use the distribution as font as
such, or convert it, there is no necessity to inform
the Wadalab group. But in case you redistribute it, we
request you kindly to forward a note to
ftp.ipl.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp
with the additional information of what has been altered.
At that location we also plan to store the upgrade,
to give the user the possibility to receive always
the latest version.

In case you want to point out mistakes in the outline
of Kanjis or are not satisfied with the poor design,
please do not hesitate to contact
tanaka@ipl.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp
---------------------------------

It took the Wadalab-kanji--commmittee from April 1990 until
March 1992 to put all main and minor parts of Kanjis, as well
as the necessary accessories, together. (Right now something
like the Wadalab does not exist.)

